# Coding Guidelines Subcommittee Meeting on 2025-02-26 @ 3pm UTC

| Search Key  | Description          |
|-------------|----------------------|
| [todo]      | Action Item          |
| [decision]  | Something decided on |
| [important] | Key information      |

## Attendees

* Koppany Pazman  
* Pete LeVasseur, ü§í  
* Alexandru Radovici üôÇ  
* Espen Albrektsen üôÇ  
* Andrew Fernandes ‚òïÔ∏è  
* Douglas Deslauriers üôÇ  
* Oreste Bernardi  
* Sarah Dietrich üôÇ  
* Julius Gustavsson ü§ß   
* Alexandru Vochescu  üôÇ  
* Christof Petig üò™  
* Monadic Cat üò∏  
* Arthur Hicken üôÉ  
* Joel Marcey ü•±

## Agenda

1. Acceptance of [Previous Meeting Minutes](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/blob/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines/meetings/2025-02-12/minutes.md)  
2. Housekeeping \- No recordings, no AI transcriptions, use Chatham House Rule for notes, limit invites to members (Pete)  
3. `unsafe` Formulate Chapter Material Task Force \- report ([Markus](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/pull/182), [Jonas](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/pull/148), [Pete](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/pull/154))  
4. `unsafe` Practicum Chapter Task Force \- report (Joni)  
5. Safety Pamphlet \- progress (Andrew Fernandes)  
6. GitHub board walkthrough \- prioritization, way of work, wrap-up of Learn unsafe Rust contributions (Pete)  
7. Round table

Supplemental material to the agenda can be found on the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines).


**Notetaker:**

* Espen Albrektsen

## Housekeeping section

* Document space: [coding-guidelines](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines)  
* Zulip: [safety-critical-consortium: Coding Guidelines](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/445688-safety-critical-consortium/topic/Coding.20Guidelines)  
* [Work Item Board](https://github.com/orgs/rustfoundation/projects/1)



## Material

Any material to read before the meeting should be included here.

### GitHub Project Board for Work Items

* [Work Item Board](https://github.com/orgs/rustfoundation/projects/1)  
* [Coding guidelines published](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/issues/188#issue-2869798433): Proposes a way of work to tackle the coding guidelines

### Tracking Issues

* [\[Coding Guidelines\] Learn unsafe Rust \- Practicum Chapter Draft](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/issues/122)  
* [\[Coding Guidelines\] Formulate Chapter Material for Learn unsafe Rust](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/issues/123)


## Meeting Minutes

* Acceptance of previous meeting minutes  
  * Quickly reviewed \- not merged to Github so needs to be merged  
  * Minutes were accepted  
* Reviewed housekeeping rules  
  * No recordings, no AI transcriptions, use Chatham House Rule for notes, limit invites to members  
  * Agreed, no objections  
* `unsafe` Formulate Chapter Material Task Force \- report (Markus, Jonas, Pete)  
  * ABI & FFI  
    * Open PR182 for the FFI and ABI, comments are welcome  
    * Ongoing   
      * Started work on calling conventions  
      * What are sources of unsafe  
    * Propose another document  
      * Start of coding guidelines doc  
      * Would be the starting point for rules  
        * Could give guidelines on when a function needs to be unsafe  
        * Could then become a clippy rule  
      * Try to make a template for one rule  
      * Maybe also scaffold out the overall layout of the guidelines  
      * Need a mapping to SAE and MISRA, we cannot use those guidelines directly  
      * Learn unsafe Rust is a specific document, rules should be in a more general location.  
  * Intrinsics  
    * Some work done, teaching material needs work.   
    * Currently a guideline, explaining where to find intrinsics, will be reoriented to become teaching material  

* `unsafe` Practicum Chapter Task Force \- report (Joni)  
  * Intro chapter to learn unsafe Rust  
  * Author not in call, so no update  
  * [todo] Pete \- follow up offline  
* Safety Pamphlet \- progress (Andrew Fernandes)  
  * Thinking has been done, not so much writing  
  * unsafe as Rust keyword vs unsafe as ‚Äúdon‚Äôt do this‚Äù vs Safety Critical  
  * DO-178 goes to lengths to reiterate that this is *not* a safety critical standard \- it only lists objectives  
  * Struggling to decide how to map the objective to Rust guidelines  
  * Round the table  
    * Expectation is to solve the ambiguity \- what does Rust unsafe mean vs Safety critical safe \- a clear definition would be useful  
    * Maybe some typographical standard could help  
    * This is maybe ‚Äúwhat are we covering in the coding guidelines‚Äù \- answering this question is helpful to define the scope for the coding guidelines  
    * Would like some headlines for what areas other than unsafe do we need to think about  
      * Could be broad \- then decide what to tackle and what to not tackle  
      * Types of arithmetic  
    * A use case is ‚ÄúI am writing a application for some specific guideline‚Äù \- I would like to have a guideline to understand what do I need to do in Rust for that particular standard.  
      * Is the pamphlet enough, or is that covered somewhere else  
      * Maybe we need to write what is *not* covered by the pamphlet  
    * Useful to talk to multiple audiences, some from Safety Critical Aero / Auto \- vs wrote a lot of Rust, new to SC. Be a bridge into SC  
      * Talk about what SC means, where does Rust fit and how  
      * After reading the pamphlet, you should understand how Rust and SC fit together  
    * There are many layers around safety  
      * Software vs Hardware vs Language  
      * Maybe at some point \- could also elaborate on this  
  * Will start simple  
    * Get something in today, to get discussions started  
    * Probably be called something other than Safety Pamphlet  
* GitHub board walkthrough \- prioritization, way of work, wrap-up of Learn unsafe Rust contributions (Pete)  
  * Priorities P0-P3  
    * P0: Need to ship  
    * P1-2: Need to ship, but not critical  
    * P3: Should do, can wait  
  * Reviewed the current content of the board  
  * XL issues will need to broken into smaller chunks. Work will be tracked on smaller work items.  
  * Current prioritization makes sense and was approved  
  * [https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/issues/188](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/issues/188)   
    * [decision] Plan is to start with the Rust lang book \- then add safety guidelines for each chapter in the language book  
      * Goal is not to make it certifiable \- but to make it a starting point for someone in the industry to use the guidelines as a start point for certification arguments  
      * Need to be careful of not restricting the language *to* much  
      * Need to communicate intent \- that some feature is not recommended for safety, it can still be perfectly good in a ‚Äúnormal‚Äù application  
      * The guidelines would be the reference. Pamphlet and ‚Äúlearn unsafe Rust‚Äù is for understanding and would reference the guidelines.  
      * Should be small sample and rationale in the guideline  
    * Chapters start empty / or with a TBD.  
      * Then add sections wherever safety critical aspects need to be considered  
    * Proposal: Use the reference instead of the book  
      * Accepted as a good idea, then some discussions back and forth  
      * More people are familiar wth book than reference  
      * Need to devide  
    * Final goal should be complete as a certification input  
      * Agreed \-  as a stretch goal  
      * Initial goal is to have *something* published  
    * Do we categorize guidelines Ilke MISRA mandatory / recommend / etc  
      * Undecided  
    * Reviewed the definition of the issue  
      * Book vs Reference  
        * Opinions are divided  
      * Chapters:  
        * Could be like book  
      * Conclusion:  
        * Guidelines should cover Language Reference  
        * Chapters could be like book

**Action items:**

- [todo] Pete \- follow up offline on ‚Äú`unsafe` Practicum Chapter Task Force \- report (Joni)‚Äù  
- [todo] Pete \- break down XL issue \#188 into smaller issues.  
  Then Zulip request votes on most important / painful topics  
  Initial list create by Pete, everyone can add